# 5. Conclusions

### Laws, Regulations, and Policies

Following the changes in Taiwan’s socio-political atmosphere in 2014, the concept of open government has become an unmistakable trend in the country. Open government puts information transparency, citizen participation, and public-private collaboration in the same context. In practice, however, open government is manifested in individual laws and policies. Currently, information transparency is regulated by the Freedom of Government Information Law, and the spirit of participation is revealed in the Administrative Procedure Law. There is no relevant laws or regulations on public-private collaboration.

In addition to laws, administrative orders and policies are the Taiwanese government’s most important tools to promote open government. Unfortunately, in the past three years, the government has yet to come up with an overall plan to practice open government. Most of the government’s efforts have been put into reaching superficial KPIs instead of building a firm foundation of open government. There is no long-term policy continuity on most open government policies so far. Policies often die when the few political leaders who back them leave office. The concept and practices of open government have yet to take root in the hearts of most political leaders. Open government is viewed only as a popular slogan and its concrete planning as well as execution are lacking.

A possible solution for Taiwan is to take the experience of the Open Government Partnership (OGP)—make a National Action Plan every two years and review the impact of its implementation on a rolling basis. An action plan will provide civil servants with a clear policy direction and enable citizens to understand government policies better. It can also help increase the chances for Taiwan to become a member of the OGP and to raise visibility in the international arena.

### Open Data

Open data has become an important topic in government studies in the past decade. It takes information transparency a step further and emphasizes the use of data analysis to examine government operations and to provide better public services. Ideally, open data empowers citizens to take the initiative to oversee the government and facilitates public-private collaboration through civic tech.

Open data in Taiwan has several key problems. First, there is no solid data infrastructure in the government. Government administration has not yet been digitalized and the information of individual departments is not connected. Second, data quantity has been put before quality. Implementing open data only increases civil servants’ workload and data quality is not good enough to create value-adding applications. That is why open data has had no tangible impact on Taiwan so far. Third, the government has been trying to develop the data economy in the past three years, but there is no guiding industrial policy. Instead, the government competes with startups for business opportunities to reach their KPIs. Last but not least, the focus on the data economy has led to negligence on other important aspects of open data, such as government accountability and social equality. 

Open data is still a heated topic for debate in Taiwan, but after three years of practice, we are still far from our ultimate goals and its impact is still limited. In reviewing open data practices, we came to realize that the real issue is no longer with how open the data is, but with whether the government can effectively distribute, manage, and utilize the data it produces in governance. In the past, the bureaucracy has produced all sorts of paper-based information flows and strictly controlled their access for management and anti-corruption reasons, for instance. Now, to make open data useful and to create impact, it is necessary to open the machine bureaucracy, reconnect information, and reform the governance model.

### Citizen Participation

In Taiwan, deliberative democracy has been practiced since the second-generation National Health Insurance reforms in 2001, in which many consensus conferences and scenario workshops were held. The street deliberation that developed during the 2014 Sunflower Movement and the "Grassroots Forums of Civic Constitutional Convention" that was held following the Movement further promoted deliberative democracy. We conducted case analysis on several participation models between 2014 and 2016. They mostly employed online tools and were designed to lower the threshold of participation through less rigorous forms of discussion. They are distinct from conventional practices of citizen participation and of deliberative democracy, which is small in scale and strict in form.

Most of the practices discussed were experimental and relied on the political will of the political leader for implementation and horizontal communication. Among the practices, local participatory budgeting (PB) is being institutionalized and normalized. The PB projects tell us that the positioning of the executive unit, the city government, and citizens is of great importance, and it is necessary for civil servants to feel empowered.

Digital tools have not played a big role in these citizen participation models. Digital tools are only actively used as a medium through Taiwan's "i-Voting" and “JOIN” platforms. Intermediaries play a key role in communication and translation, and must strike a balance between lowering the threshold of participation and fostering informed, quality discussion in citizen participation.

### Collaborative Relationships In Civic Tech

In this chapter, we focused on civic tech collaboration and analyzed four cases in which skilled members of civil society were organically connected with government staffers, so that they could analyze problems of governance and formulate solutions together. Civic tech attempts to reverse the conception of government as a ruler, advocating for a re-thinking of power relations between government and people. Through civic tech practices, the two parties are reconnected in a collaborative relationship.

Without an adequate institutional system for working with government, civic tech has relied on people as bridge builders. Various roles inside and outside the government have put efforts in civic tech collaboration: leaders contribute political support, mediators facilitate communication and coordination, and, most importantly, the collaborating parties share goals and values and show a willingness to learn each other’s language and culture. Unfortunately, civic tech practices have not been systematically integrated into existing government operations, nor has a mature business model or ecosystem been developed. This prevents civic tech from scaling up its influence.

The government can facilitate civic tech collaboration in two ways. The first is the "small government" approach: the government should no longer think of itself as the sole provider of public services. With good policy as a foundation and solid infrastructure as a backbone, it should encourage civil society and companies to provide public services and build a civic tech ecosystem. The second is the “open government” approach: The government, as one of many stakeholders collaborating with civil society on an equal basis, should open up governance processes and collaborate with civil society on an equal basis to reform them, allowing new and old mechanisms to be brought together. 

### Final Note

When President Obama proposed putting open government into practice, the technology communities were full of excitement, which drove the government technology boom. Two years later, the US led the establishment of the OGP, promoting the idea to countries around the world. However, looking back at this time in 2017, international politics has gone through dramatic changes. Trump’s disregard for open government policies,  successful dis-information campaign that led to Brexit, and fake news campaigns affecting elections in many countries seem like a slap in the face to those who are passionate about open government.

What about Taiwan? After the 2014 Sunflower Movement, the then-KMT government started to make small changes. However, after the change in government and the DPP came to power in 2016, the development of open government seems to have cooled down. There is no high-level plan on open data, citizen participation has lost steam, civic tech has stagnated at the experimental stage, and there is no tangible impact of open government to be seen. "Open government," apart from being the pet phrase of all politicians, is but an unfamiliar and empty term to the public.


In this process of accumulating expectation and disappointment, we cannot help but wonder: are we in the right direction? Do the tiny and grassroots attempts of political "disturbances" have any meaning?

Even though we walk in anxiety and uncertainty, there are a few things we are still sure of. 

We know that open government should not be old wine in a new bottle. It is neither an upgraded version of e-government nor is it a new package for deliberative democracy. In the previous chapters, we discussed the core elements of open government: transparency, participation, and collaboration, and analyzed the complex issues involved in each of them. There is no one solution for all. The issues cannot be simplified and every stage has to be handled with care.

We also know that open government is not simply a technological reform. Digitalization is not the only answer. Open government has to do with politics, with participation, and with the relationship between people and power. Technology can be a tool but how the tool is used and what impact it will have depends on human operation, thinking, and judgment.

Finally, we know that open government cannot be a fight outside the institution and we cannot wait for institutional reform to happen internally. Open government requires collaboration inside and out, and all parties need to make an effort. Open government does not have a big enemy to defeat on its way. What it needs is for every individual in the government, in corporations, or in communities to see themselves as citizens and use their skills to seek out future directions and answers, together. 
